h1. cash_handler

cash_handler aims to be an intuitive (and useful) set of extensions and utilities to assist in handling money across different currencies for Ruby on Rails.

h2. Requirements and Installation

* Install the hpricot gem  (gem install hpricot)
* Install the cash_handler plugin  (script/plugin install git://github.com/JamesBrooks/cash_handler.git)

h2. Usage

<pre><code>
  c = CashHandler::Base.new
  
  # Get the current exchange rate of the AUD against the USD (currency code strings are case in-sensitive, can also be symbols)
  c.get('AUD')
  => 0.619099
  
  # Get the current exchange rate of the AUD against the GBP
  c.get('AUD', :against => 'GBP')
  => 0.418621272567449
  
  # Convert
  c.convert(10, :aud, :usd)
  => 6.19099
  
  # Force the converstion rates cache to reload currencies
  c.cache.expire
  
  # The CashHandler::Cache has a default cache life of one day, this can be overridden in one of two ways
  # Upon creation
  c = CashHandler::Base.new(:ttl => 30.minutes)
  
  # During operation
  c.cache.ttl = 30.minutes
</code></pre>

h2. Backup rates in case themoneyconverter.com is inaccessible

You may configure cash_handler to create a backup file every time it pulls rates from themoneyconverter.com.  In the event that themoneyconverter.com is inaccessible, the rates stored in the backup file will be used.

<pre><code>
  # Configure cash_handler to persist rates to our app's log directory
  c = CashHandler::Base.new(:backup_rates_file_location => "#{RAILS_ROOT}/tmp/rates.yml")
</code></pre>

When working in a development or test environment with cache classes disabled, you may not want to fetch new rates with each request.

<pre><code>
  # Will only force cache expiration on initialization CashHandler::Cache.new(:force_expire => true) in a production environment.
  c = CashHandler::Base.new(:force_expire => Rails.env.production?)
</code></pre>

h2. Copyright and License

Copyright (c) 2008 James Brooks, released under the MIT license
